Let's talk more about Redis.
So this is the more Redis
concepts part of the notes.
And we're going to be talking about
some of the more advanced things
that Redis can do.
Yeah, and we're gonna do one of them,
the other ones we're just
gonna kind of chat about.
So Redis does have a peculiar ability
to do to evaluate Lua I don't
know if you're familiar with Lua.
It's a very simplified,
it's a programming language that
doesn't have a lot of syntax.
We'll go with that.
You can do a lot of things with Lua, but
it is a fairly small language
in that particular capacity.
So, if you need to do something
like really complicated with Redis,
it does have the ability to
actually accept entire program.
To do that within Lua.
Now, my general advice for
you is if you're coming at a problem and
you're saying,
I need Redis to evaluate Lua for me,
you might reconsider what you're doing.
It might not necessarily be a good idea.
I really can't fathom of like
what I really wanted to do right
now I wanted to evaluate Lua for me.
So, I was actually talking to one of
the engineers that used to work on mixer
right mixer is like the twitch
streaming platform that Microsoft I've
used to have apparently mixer
used this capability quite a bit.
So, I don't know, that was a big
website that handle a lot of traffic.
They did it.
So, I've never had to do this.
I actually kind of think
this is a bad idea, but
I could see eventually being useful and
we're gonna do it for science.
So, let's just clear
this our a little bit.
So I'm gonna say EVAL, which is how you
tell us I'm about to give you some Lua's,
so buckle up.
And then you're gonna say, like we're
gonna write a little bit of Lua.
I don't know Lua so
I actually had to look up how to do this.
For i = 9, or
i = 0 ,9,1.
So, from 0 to 9 increment by 1
Do redis.call, SET, and
then we gonna do a Lua key.
So lua underscore key,
underscore dot dot,
this is all lua stuff.
I, i times 5,
End 0 So what does this do?
Again this is not a Lua class,
so if you don't understand this.
I don't particularly understand
it super well either.
This is for loop from 0 to 9.
And it's doing a Redis called sets,
how you actually call into Redis and
calling set on Lua key 0, Lua key 1,
Lua key 2, Lua key 3 and setting those.
So if I say GET Lua key 5 like that,
it's 25 right, because it's 5
times 5, again Lua key 630.
So we're doing this all just so you can
see you can provide a bit of Lua code
it will go through you
can do multiple sets.
This is kind of where I think that Lua
could be useful as if I had to do kind
of a bunch of stuff all at once and
I wanted to send it all at once to Redis.
I still think I'd rather do that in my
Node JS code rather than sending Lua to be
evaluated by Redis.
But, I just wanted you to be aware
that there is a Lua interpreter
built into Redis.
Sorry about that 0 at the end here,
Redis has the ability
to run in a cluster and
in a sharded cluster as well.
If when that's the case,
you actually have to tell Redis I'm
sending it to these keys.
So I'd actually have to come in here and
say 10 Lua key, 0, Lua key.
And I'd actually have to go out and
say, here are all the keys
that I'm about to change,
because it has to shard those correctly.
And it has to know that upfront
before you do it in Lua.
So, that's what that 10 means.
Just so you know.
Again, I don't particularly see this being
super useful to many students in this
class, but it's kinda fun.
We wrote a little bit of Lua today.
How many of you expected
to write Lua today?
If the answer is yes,.
I have more questions for
you [LAUGH] all right.
I think that's enough.
Lua and Redis for today.
I have another example in there but
the relatively the idea is you can
actually pass arguments into the Lua,
and use those with dollar signs or
keys, 1, keys 2, so on and so forth.
In fact, we'll just copy and
paste that so you can see it.
It looks like we're down here,
more Redis concepts.
So, here,
you can actually pass in arguments.
That's what the ARGV is, is you can
actually pass those arguments into
the the Redis pro or
the Lua program as well.
Okay, good enough.
Pub Sub, we actually did talk about this.
You can do this with streams.
This is better for example, if you were
gonna try and pull reddish for changes,
you could use a stream
to do that in better.
So, publish and subscribe.
That's a pub sub stands for,
it's actually a very useful pattern.
I'd never done it with redness before, but
I'll probably give it a shot after
this to see how useful it is.
It's useful for
real time notifications and stuff.
Things that you would, yeah,
you would use something like that for.
Transactions, so we've talked about
this in previous where you wanna send
multiple things at the same time.
Redis also has this capability
of doing transactions.
And it has a couple
different ways of doing it.
You can do with multi exec,
discard and watch.
I'm not gonna really get into
it because I've never had to do
transactions in Redis If that's
really interesting to you,
conceptually understand
what a transaction is.
So you click here,
that'll take you into the Redis docs
that'll tell you how to
do transactions in Redis.
But the one I did wanna
spend some time on is LRU.
So, one of the ways actually
literally the only way that
mem cache works is you say,
all right, mem cache,
you have 100 megabytes of
memory all to yourself, right?
And you can store whatever you want in
there, but you get no more than 100
megabytes or a gigabyte or 10 gigabytes or
whatever you wanna give it.
What will happen is,
once it hits 100 megabytes,
it has to evict something from its cache,
right?
Something has to go away so
it can fit more stuff in there.
And do that does that with
a strategy called LRU.
Last or least recently updated, right.
Not even updated least recently
used is actually the correct one.
So what mem cached is gonna do is it's
gonna go look inside of itself and
say what key in here.
Is the least recently read or
written to, and
then it'll take that key in evicted
out of there so that it's gone.
And this is called an LRU strategy.
This is useful for things that you're
just, setting cash on the fly.
And it's making
the fundamental assumption,
which is probably a pretty good assumption
that, if you're never using a key,
it's probably okay if you
evicted from the cache.
You can set Redis to act in
this exact same way as well.
And it's a little bit of a step up from
mem cache because everything's getting
written to disk so that if your server
accidentally goes down, you can just say,
hey Redis, restart yourself.
And it'll reload its cache because
everything was getting written to disk.
That is the only way LRU is the only
way that mem cached can work.
Redis actually has a couple
of different strategies.
I left a link to that here, but the idea
here is if I can show you this actually
give you a whole thing of how to do LRU.
So, that's good too.
Yeah, so
I had a good example here with gravatar.
So imagine you're using, like gravatar is
it people imagine most people have seen
gravatar before which the idea is
that you have an email address.
And then anywhere that anyone that goes
to another website that uses gravatar can
get your same Avatar and
they just use that same gravatar service.
You're probably gonna cache users that
are frequently using gravatar and
there's probably a lot of people that use
gravatar that very rarely hit gravatar.
So an LRU would be very useful to them,
because those people would get read
from the database and that's fine.
But you'd have a high
cache hit percentage.
And that's actually probably
what you're mostly looking for
with caching is you want
caches to have hits, right.
So you want to find things in the cache.
That's what a cache hit percentages.
And you wanna have low cache misses,
right?
And cache misses when you look for
something in the cache, it's not there.
All right, so
LRU that's one way that Redis can do it.
There's a bunch of other ways
that Redis can do it as well.
So again, just wanna call out here,
you can always go to this DB samples page.
There's a Redis Directory here that
has the complete code in here.